---
simd: "0060"
title: Title of SIMD
authors:
  - (fill in with names of authors)
category: Standard/Meta
type: Core
status: Draft
created: 2023-06-28
feature: (fill in with feature tracking issues once accepted)
---

## Summary

Add syscall support for the elliptic curve
[BLS12-381](https://hackmd.io/@benjaminion/bls12-381).

## Motivation

There are many ZK projects that are using advanced cryptography technologies to
give users control and security over very sensitive information on the
blockchain. Each of these projects make use of different kinds of elliptic
curves that are advantageous for different applications.

The elliiptic curve BLS12-381 is one of the most popular curves used in ZK
projects. However, the Solana runtime does not yet have syscalls that support
BLS12-381 curve operations.

More specifically, adding support for BLS12-381 syscalls could provide the
following benefits:

- The BLS signature scheme generally uses the curve BLS12-381. Syscall support
  for BLS12-381 could enable on-chain programs to verify BLS signatures cheaply.
  BLS has a number of advantages (also disadvantages) over Ed25519.
- Many recent zk-SNARK implementations use BLS12-381. If we have native support
  for BLS12-381, developers in the Solana ecosystem can use these newer SNARK
  implementations.
- There are projects in the Solana ecosystem that currently rely on the BN254
  pairing-friendly curve. BLS12-381 is a more secure pairing-friendly curve
  compared to BN254. If the syscalls are implemented, the existing ZK projects
  on Solana could potentially upgrade their curves to a more secure BLS12-381.
- Many chains already have support for BLS12-381, so there are many existing
  projects that rely on this curve. Adding support for BLS12-381 could encourage
  these projects from other ecosystems to expand to Solana.

## Alternatives Considered

Solana currently have support (awaiting feature activation) for the following
curves:

- Curve25519 pairing free curve ([feature-gate](https://github.com/solana-labs/solana/issues/29612))
- BN254 pairing-friendly curve ([feature-gate](https://github.com/solana-labs/solana/issues/28909))

BLS12-381 is a pairing-friendly curve, so projects could in theory switch to
BN254. However, this is a downgrade in terms of security and it is generally a
lot of work for projects to switch curves.

## Detailed Design

BLS12-381 is a popular curve and there are a number of libraries/crates that
implement it, so the curve operations themselves do not need to be implemented
from scratch.

The basic elliptic curve operations for syscalls are already organized into
traits in
[`zk-token-sdk`](https://github.com/solana-labs/solana/blob/master/zk-token-sdk/src/curve25519/curve_syscall_traits.rs).

Adding support for BLS12-381 syscalls would require the following steps:

- Decide on the most efficient/secure library/crate implementation for
  BLS12-381.
- Implement the elliptic curve syscall traits as specified in `zk-token-sdk`
  using an existing library/crate.
- Expose the implementations of these traits as syscalls and assign suitable
  CU costs for them.

## Impact

This proposal will affect dapp and protocol developers better use of zk-SNARKS
and other advanced cryptography technologies.

## Security Considerations

The CU costs for the syscalls should be approximated conservatively so that the
syscalls cannot be abused to negatively impact the network. The curve
implementations should also ideally be audited by external parties as it
directly deals with cryptography.

## Drawbacks _(Optional)_

## Backwards Compatibility _(Optional)_
